README.md, before:

# Registry

##### *It's functions all the way down* <img src="doc/images/unboxed-bottomup.jpg" border="0"/>

#### Presentation

This library provides a data structure, a `Registry`, to control the creation of functions from other functions. You can use this technique to:

 - create applications out of software components ("dependency injection")
 - fine tune JSON encoders/decoders
 - create composable data generators for nested datatypes

The following sections introduce in more details the problem that this library is addressing, the concepts behind the solution and various use-cases which can arise on real projects:

 1. [what is the problem?](doc/motivation.md)
 1. the concept of a [Registry](doc/registry.md) and the resolution algorithm
 1. how does this [compare to monad and effects?](https://github.com/etorreborre/effects)

#### Tutorials

 1. use a `Registry` to compose [Hedgehog generators](doc/generators.md)
 1. use a `Registry` to create [applications](doc/applications.md) and define components

#### How-tos

 1. how to [install this library](./install.md)?
 1. how to do [mocking](./applications.md#integration)?
 1. how to [specialize some values in some contexts](./applications.md#context-dependent-configurations)?
 1. how to [make a singleton](./applications.md#singletons) for a database?
 1. how to [allocate resources](./applications.md#resources) which must be finalized?
 1. how to [initialize components](./applications.md#start-up) in an application?
 1. how to [extract a dot graph from the registry](./dot.md) in an application?

#### Reference guides

 1. [main operators and functions](doc/reference.md)
 1. [implementation notes](doc/implementation.md)

Commit message:

added a link in the how-to guide on how to deal with monad transformers

README.md, after:

# Registry

##### *It's functions all the way down* <img src="doc/images/unboxed-bottomup.jpg" border="0"/>

#### Presentation

This library provides a data structure, a `Registry`, to control the creation of functions from other functions. You can use this technique to:

 - create applications out of software components ("dependency injection")
 - fine tune JSON encoders/decoders
 - create composable data generators for nested datatypes

The following sections introduce in more details the problem that this library is addressing, the concepts behind the solution and various use-cases which can arise on real projects:

 1. [what is the problem?](doc/motivation.md)
 1. the concept of a [Registry](doc/registry.md) and the resolution algorithm
 1. how does this [compare to monad and effects?](https://github.com/etorreborre/effects)

#### Tutorials

 1. use a `Registry` to compose [Hedgehog generators](doc/generators.md)
 1. use a `Registry` to create [applications](doc/applications.md) and define components

#### How-tos

 1. how to [install this library](./install.md)?
 1. how to do [mocking](./applications.md#integration)?
 1. how to [specialize some values in some contexts](./applications.md#context-dependent-configurations)?
 1. how to [make a singleton](./applications.md#singletons) for a database?
 1. how to [allocate resources](./applications.md#resources) which must be finalized?
 1. how to [initialize components](./applications.md#start-up) in an application?
 1. how to [extract a dot graph from the registry](./dot.md) in an application?
 1. how to [interact with a library using monad transformers](https://github.com/etorreborre/registry/blob/master/test/Test/Data/Registry/MonadRandomSpec.hs)?

#### Reference guides

 1. [main operators and functions](doc/reference.md)
 1. [implementation notes](doc/implementation.md)
