doc/applications.md, before:

# Applications

There are many ways to structure Haskell applications, the [Handle pattern](https://jaspervdj.be/posts/2018-03-08-handle-pattern.html), the [ReaderT pattern](https://www.fpcomplete.com/blog/2017/06/readert-design-pattern), [mtl](https://ocharles.org.uk/blog/posts/2016-01-26-transformers-free-monads-mtl-laws.html), [free monads](http://www.parsonsmatt.org/2017/09/22/what_does_free_buy_us.html). Some approaches rely more on the type system than others, for example the `mtl` way [benefits a lot](http://www.parsonsmatt.org/2018/04/10/transforming_transformers.html) from the `derivingVia` mechanism.

The approach we present here is similar to the "Handle pattern" and uses a Registry to support all the functionalities we might expect when building applications. We generally want to:

 1. [define independent components](#define-components) requiring only knowledge of their immediate dependencies
 1. [unit test](#unit-test) them
 1. [configure](#configuration) them for different environments
 1. [instantiate the full application](#make-the-application) or a subset of it
 1. [integrate the application](#integration) and mock some dependencies
 1. [manage resources](#resources)
 1. [define singletons](#singletons)
 1. [define context-dependent configurations](#context-dependent-configurations)
 1. control the [start-up](#start-up) of the application

#### GoodBookings.com

We are goind to build a booking application which needs to:

 1. listen to reservation requests ("bookings") and store them in a database
 1. listen to accomodation availabilities and store them in a database
 1. offer an API to browse bookings, availabilities and make a manual match
 1. support logging for debugging, auditing,...

### Define components

A modular approach to building such an application consists in defining distincts components:

`Logging.hs`
```haskell
module Logging where

data Module = Module {
  info    :: Text -> IO ()
, error   :: Text -> IO ()
}

new :: Logging
new = Logging {
  info t  = print ("[INFO] " <> t)
, error t = print ("[ERROR] " <> t)
}
```
`Database.hs`
```haskell
-- low level sql interactions with a database
module Database where

data Module = Module {
  get    :: (FromRow a) => Command -> IO (Maybe a)
, list   :: (FromRow a) => Command -> IO [a]
, insert :: (ToRow a)   => Command -> [a] -> IO ()
}

data Config = Config {
  host :: Text
, port :: Int
}

-- Starting the database is likely to be an IO action
new :: Config -> Logging.Module -> IO Module
new = ...
```
`BookingRepository.hs`
```haskell
module BookingRepository where

-- A "domain level" component for storing and retrieving all the data
data Module = Module {
  storeRequest   :: Request -> IO ()
, getRequestById :: RequestId -> IO (Maybe Request)
, getAllRequests :: IO [Request]
}
-- + similar code for availabilities and confirmations

new :: Config -> Logging.Module -> Database.Module -> Module
new = ...

```
`EventListener.hs`
```haskell
module EventListener where

-- A generic event listener to an events system like Kafka
data Module = Module {
  -- subscribe to events and consume them
  consumeEvents :: ([Event] -> IO ()) -> IO ()
}

data Config = Config {
  eventTopic :: URI
}

new :: Config -> Module
new = ...
```
`BookingEventListener.hs`
```haskell
module BookingEventListener where

-- \ A specific listener for bookings
data Module = Module {
  consumeBookings :: IO ()
}

new :: Logging.Module -> EventListener.Module -> Module
new = ...
```
`AvailabilitiesEventListener.hs`
```haskell
module AvailabilitiesEventListener where

-- A specific listener for Availabilities
data Module = Module {
  consumeAvailabilities :: IO ()
}

new :: Logging.Module -> EventListener.Module -> Module
new = ...
```
`Api.hs`
```haskell
module Api where

-- A HTTP API to query the data in the database
data Module = Module {
  getBookings       :: Request -> IO Response
, getAvalaibilities :: Request -> IO Response
, createMatch       :: Request -> IO Response
}

new :: Logging.Module -> BookingRepository.Module -> Module
new = ...
```
`App.hs`
```haskell
module App where

data Module = Module {
  api            :: Api
, bookings       :: BookingsEventListener
, availabilities :: AvailabilitiesEventListener
}

new
  :: Logging.Module
  -> Api.Module
  -> BookingsEventListener.Module
  -> AvailabilitiesEventListener.Module
  -> Module
new = ...
```

The overall dependency graph looks like
```
                         App

       +------------------+----------------------+
       |                  |                      |
       v                  v                      v
      Api  BookingsEventListener AvailabilitiesEventListener
       |                  |                      |
       |                  |                      |
       v                  |                      |
  BookingRepository <-----+----------------------+
       |
       v
    Database
```

On this diagram we don't show the `Logger` component which is likely to be embedded everywhere and the `EventListener`component embedded in both `Bookings` and `Availabilities` listeners.

### Unit test

Unit-testing components as defined above is really straightforward because each component defines a `new` function for which you can provide dummy values if necessary. For example a `Logging.Module` which doesn't print anything to the console:
```haskell
noLogging = Logging.Module {
  info  = const (pure ())
, error = const (pure ())
}
```

### Configuration

Configuring the application consists in gathering all constructors (the `new` functions) and the required pieces of configuration (the `Config` datatypes) into a `Registry`:
```haskell
registry =
     val (EventListener.Config [urihttps://kafka/bookings])
     val (Database.Config "postgres://database" 5432)
  +: fun Database.new
  +: fun BookingRepository.new
  +: fun EventListener.new
  +: fun BookingEventListener.new
  +: fun AvailabilitiesEventistener.new
  +: fun Api.new
  +: fun Database.new
  +: end
```

The code above creates a `Registry` by adding values and constructors with the `+:` operator (`end` represents the empty registry). `val` signifies that this is a value which can be shown (it has a `Show` instance) and `fun` signifies that this is a "constructor" for which we can only display the type. This is useful when you want to display the configuration of your application at startup.

Moreover, since `registry` just a function, you can create smarter functions to handle different configurations for different environments you want to run on:
```haskell
components =
     fun Database.new
  +: fun BookingRepository.new
  +: fun EventListener.new
  +: fun BookingEventListener.new
  +: fun AvailabilitiesEventistener.new
  +: fun Api.new
  +: fun Database.new
  +: end

prod =
     val (EventListener.Config [urihttps://kafka-prod/bookings])
  +: val (Database.Config "postgres://database-prod" 5432)
  +: end

dev =
     val (EventListener.Config [urihttps://kafka-dev/bookings])
  +: val (Database.Config "localhost" 5432)
  +: end

registry env = env <+> components

prodRegistry = registry prod
devRegistry  = registry dev
```

In that case the `<+>` operator is use to "append" 2 registries together.
Now we can "make" the application.

### Make the application

In order to "make" the application we use the `TypeApplications` language extension and the `Data.Registry.make` function:
```haskell
app :: App
app = make @App devRegistry
```

`make` will recursively build all the dependencies until it can build the full `App`. In case a constructor or a piece of configuration is missing the compiler will display a message like:
```haskell
No instance for (Contains EventListener.Config '[])
  arising from a use of ‘make’
```

We don't have to build the whole application. Once we have a Registry we can also integrate subsets of the application.

### Integration

For example we can just as easily instantiate and start the `BookingEventListener`:
```haskell
listener = make @BookingEventListener devRegistry

listener & consumeBookings
```
This will create both the listener and the underlying database so that consumed events will be stored. Yet, for integration testing you might prefer to skip storing bookings altogether. In that case you can define a `MockDatabase`:
```haskell
mockDatabase = Database.Module {
  get = pure Nothing
, list = pure []
, insert = pure ()
}
```

And add it "on top" of the `devRegistry`:
```haskell
listener = make @BookingEventListener (fun mockDatabase +: devRegistry)

listener & consumeBookings
```
Now no booking will be stored in the database while you run the listener.
Can wiring and re-wiring your application be simpler than that?

Actually the full story is a bit more complicated :-).
For one thing some components need to carefully allocate resources.

### Resources

For example the constructor for the `Database` returns an `IO Database`. This is problematic for the registry resolution algorithm because the `BookingRepository.new` function requires a `Database.Module` not an `IO Database.Module`. What can we do? The simplest thing is to actually "lift" everything into the same `IO` monad using some variations of the `val` and `fun` combinators:

 - `valM  @m`  lifts a value `a` into `m a`
 - `pureM @m` lifts a function `a -> b -> c -> ... -> o` into `m a -> m b -> m c -> ... -> m o`
 - `funM @m`  lifts a function `a -> b -> c -> ... -> m o` into `m a -> m b -> m c -> ... -> m o`

This means that a "real-life" application registry looks like:
```haskell
registry =
     valM  @IO (EventListener.Config [urihttps://kafka/bookings])
  +: valM  @IO (Database.Config "postgres://database" 5432)
  +: funM  @IO Database.new
  +: pureM @IO BookingRepository.new
  +: pureM @IO EventListener.new
  +: pureM @IO BookingEventListener.new
  +: pureM @IO AvailabilitiesEventistener.new
  +: pureM @IO Api.new
  +: pureM @IO Database.new
  +: end
```

In general the monad used won't even be `IO` but a `ResourceT` monad because components allocating resources should better close them down gracefully when they are done. While you can use your own `ResourceT IO` this library provides a `Data.Registry.RIO` monad supporting resource allocation (please have a look at the API).

In terms of resources management we are almost there. We still need to solve one issue.

When we use `Database.new` we get back an `IO Database.Module` which goes on top of the stack. This `IO Database.Module` value can then be used by all the lifted functions in our registry, like `BookingRepository.new`. However since the `BookingRepository.Module` is used by 3 other components everytime we use it we will get a new version of the `Database`! Because the action `IO Database.Module` will be executed 3 times giving us 3 accesses to the database. This is clearly undesirable since a `Database` component maintains a pool of connections to the database. What we need is to make a "singleton" for the database.

### Singletons

The `singleton` function does exactly this:
```haskell
registry =
     singleton @IO @Database.Module $

     valM  @IO (EventListener.Config [urihttps://kafka/bookings])
  +: valM  @IO (Database.Config "postgres://database" 5432)
  +: funM  @IO Database.new
  +: pureM @IO BookingRepository.new
  +: pureM @IO EventListener.new
  +: pureM @IO BookingEventListener.new
  +: pureM @IO AvailabilitiesEventistener.new
  +: pureM @IO Api.new
  +: pureM @IO Database.new
  +: end
```

The `singleton` declaration will slightly "tweak" the registry to say "if you create an `IO Database.Module` cache this action so that the same `Database.Module` is returned everytime an `IO Database.Module` value is needed. Since caching is involved the signature of the `registry` changes from a pure value to a monadic one:
```haskell
registry :: IO Registry inputs outputs
registry = devRegistry & singleton @IO @Database.Module
```
And if you need to make several singletons in your application you will have to use the "bind" monadic operator
```haskell
registry :: IO Registry inputs outputs
registry = devRegistry &
            singleton @IO @Database.Module >>=
            singleton @IO @Metrics.Module
```

In terms of configuration we are almost done. We just need to address one last difficulty.

We have 2 different listeners which are both using an `EventListener.Module`. That component can be configured to listen to a specific queue of events with `EventListener.Config`. But if the 2 listeners eventually share the same configuration they are going to listen to the same event!

### Context dependent configurations

What we need then is to "specialize" the configuration to use depending on what we are building. If we are building a `BookingEventListener.Module` we want the `EventListener.Module` to be created with `configBooking` and if we are building an `AvailabilityEventListener.Module` we want the `EventListener.Module` to be created with `configAvailability`
```haskell
configBooking =
  EventListener.Config [urihttps://kafka-prod/bookings]

configAvailability =
  EventListener.Config [urihttps://kafka-prod/availabilities]
```

Then we need to tell the Registry what we want to happen with the `specialize` function:
```haskell
registry =
  devRegistry &
-- when trying to build IO BookingEventListener.Module, use configBooking whenever
-- an EventListener.Config is required
  specialize @(IO BookingEventListener.Module) configBooking &
  specialize @(IO AvailabilityEventListener.Module) configAvailability
```

If it all looks too confusing please have a look at the [reference guide](./reference.md) to see all the available combinators and their meaning at once.

Our main use-cases for configuring and instantiating the application are now covered, we can add another feature, controlling the start-up

### Start-up

Some applications once started, before being even used can run some actions:

 - do a self health-check: "is the database really connected?"
 - do a dependency health-check: "is the event service available?"
 - load caches

For those use cases you can benefit from the `Data.Registry.RIO` type which not only has a `ResourceT` instance but also defines a list of actions which you can create with the `Data.Registry.Warmup` module. For example you can write:
```haskell
-- in Database.hs

new :: Config -> RIO Database
new config = do
  -- allocate the connection as a resource
  connection <- allocate (createConnection config) pure
  let database = Database {
         get    = getWithConnection connection
       , list   = listWithConnection connection
       , insert = insertWithConnection connection
       }
  warmupWith (warmupOf database (database & tryList))

tryList :: Database -> IO ()
tryList database =
  void $ (database & list) (Command "select * from bookings limit 1")
```

If the action passed to `warmupOf` throws an exception then the whole application start-up will be aborted and the exception reported. This will happen when you use the
`Data.Registry.RIO.withRegistry` function:
```haskell
startApp = withRegistry prodRegistry $\result application ->
  if isSuccess result then
    do _ <- fork $ application & bookings & consumeBookings
       _ <- fork $ application & availabilities & consumeAvailabilities
       pure ()

  else
    print $ "could not start the application" <> show result
```

`withRegistry` gives you the opportunity to act on the result of starting the full application before making the application available.

This is all entirely optional though! You don't have to use `Data.Registry.Warmup` nor the `RIO` type and you can decide by yourself how to deal with resources and startup.

Commit message:

changed the api for lifting values and functions

doc/applications.md, after:

# Applications

There are many ways to structure Haskell applications, the [Handle pattern](https://jaspervdj.be/posts/2018-03-08-handle-pattern.html), the [ReaderT pattern](https://www.fpcomplete.com/blog/2017/06/readert-design-pattern), [mtl](https://ocharles.org.uk/blog/posts/2016-01-26-transformers-free-monads-mtl-laws.html), [free monads](http://www.parsonsmatt.org/2017/09/22/what_does_free_buy_us.html). Some approaches rely more on the type system than others, for example the `mtl` way [benefits a lot](http://www.parsonsmatt.org/2018/04/10/transforming_transformers.html) from the `derivingVia` mechanism.

The approach we present here is similar to the "Handle pattern" and uses a Registry to support all the functionalities we might expect when building applications. We generally want to:

 1. [define independent components](#define-components) requiring only knowledge of their immediate dependencies
 1. [unit test](#unit-test) them
 1. [configure](#configuration) them for different environments
 1. [instantiate the full application](#make-the-application) or a subset of it
 1. [integrate the application](#integration) and mock some dependencies
 1. [manage resources](#resources)
 1. [define singletons](#singletons)
 1. [define context-dependent configurations](#context-dependent-configurations)
 1. control the [start-up](#start-up) of the application

#### GoodBookings.com

We are goind to build a booking application which needs to:

 1. listen to reservation requests ("bookings") and store them in a database
 1. listen to accomodation availabilities and store them in a database
 1. offer an API to browse bookings, availabilities and make a manual match
 1. support logging for debugging, auditing,...

### Define components

A modular approach to building such an application consists in defining distincts components:

`Logging.hs`
```haskell
module Logging where

data Module = Module {
  info    :: Text -> IO ()
, error   :: Text -> IO ()
}

new :: Logging
new = Logging {
  info t  = print ("[INFO] " <> t)
, error t = print ("[ERROR] " <> t)
}
```
`Database.hs`
```haskell
-- low level sql interactions with a database
module Database where

data Module = Module {
  get    :: (FromRow a) => Command -> IO (Maybe a)
, list   :: (FromRow a) => Command -> IO [a]
, insert :: (ToRow a)   => Command -> [a] -> IO ()
}

data Config = Config {
  host :: Text
, port :: Int
}

-- Starting the database is likely to be an IO action
new :: Config -> Logging.Module -> IO Module
new = ...
```
`BookingRepository.hs`
```haskell
module BookingRepository where

-- A "domain level" component for storing and retrieving all the data
data Module = Module {
  storeRequest   :: Request -> IO ()
, getRequestById :: RequestId -> IO (Maybe Request)
, getAllRequests :: IO [Request]
}
-- + similar code for availabilities and confirmations

new :: Config -> Logging.Module -> Database.Module -> Module
new = ...

```
`EventListener.hs`
```haskell
module EventListener where

-- A generic event listener to an events system like Kafka
data Module = Module {
  -- subscribe to events and consume them
  consumeEvents :: ([Event] -> IO ()) -> IO ()
}

data Config = Config {
  eventTopic :: URI
}

new :: Config -> Module
new = ...
```
`BookingEventListener.hs`
```haskell
module BookingEventListener where

-- \ A specific listener for bookings
data Module = Module {
  consumeBookings :: IO ()
}

new :: Logging.Module -> EventListener.Module -> Module
new = ...
```
`AvailabilitiesEventListener.hs`
```haskell
module AvailabilitiesEventListener where

-- A specific listener for Availabilities
data Module = Module {
  consumeAvailabilities :: IO ()
}

new :: Logging.Module -> EventListener.Module -> Module
new = ...
```
`Api.hs`
```haskell
module Api where

-- A HTTP API to query the data in the database
data Module = Module {
  getBookings       :: Request -> IO Response
, getAvalaibilities :: Request -> IO Response
, createMatch       :: Request -> IO Response
}

new :: Logging.Module -> BookingRepository.Module -> Module
new = ...
```
`App.hs`
```haskell
module App where

data Module = Module {
  api            :: Api
, bookings       :: BookingsEventListener
, availabilities :: AvailabilitiesEventListener
}

new
  :: Logging.Module
  -> Api.Module
  -> BookingsEventListener.Module
  -> AvailabilitiesEventListener.Module
  -> Module
new = ...
```

The overall dependency graph looks like
```
                         App

       +------------------+----------------------+
       |                  |                      |
       v                  v                      v
      Api  BookingsEventListener AvailabilitiesEventListener
       |                  |                      |
       |                  |                      |
       v                  |                      |
  BookingRepository <-----+----------------------+
       |
       v
    Database
```

On this diagram we don't show the `Logger` component which is likely to be embedded everywhere and the `EventListener`component embedded in both `Bookings` and `Availabilities` listeners.

### Unit test

Unit-testing components as defined above is really straightforward because each component defines a `new` function for which you can provide dummy values if necessary. For example a `Logging.Module` which doesn't print anything to the console:
```haskell
noLogging = Logging.Module {
  info  = const (pure ())
, error = const (pure ())
}
```

### Configuration

Configuring the application consists in gathering all constructors (the `new` functions) and the required pieces of configuration (the `Config` datatypes) into a `Registry`:
```haskell
registry =
     val (EventListener.Config [urihttps://kafka/bookings])
     val (Database.Config "postgres://database" 5432)
  +: fun Database.new
  +: fun BookingRepository.new
  +: fun EventListener.new
  +: fun BookingEventListener.new
  +: fun AvailabilitiesEventistener.new
  +: fun Api.new
  +: fun Database.new
  +: end
```

The code above creates a `Registry` by adding values and constructors with the `+:` operator (`end` represents the empty registry). `val` signifies that this is a value which can be shown (it has a `Show` instance) and `fun` signifies that this is a "constructor" for which we can only display the type. This is useful when you want to display the configuration of your application at startup.

Moreover, since `registry` just a function, you can create smarter functions to handle different configurations for different environments you want to run on:
```haskell
components =
     fun Database.new
  +: fun BookingRepository.new
  +: fun EventListener.new
  +: fun BookingEventListener.new
  +: fun AvailabilitiesEventistener.new
  +: fun Api.new
  +: fun Database.new
  +: end

prod =
     val (EventListener.Config [urihttps://kafka-prod/bookings])
  +: val (Database.Config "postgres://database-prod" 5432)
  +: end

dev =
     val (EventListener.Config [urihttps://kafka-dev/bookings])
  +: val (Database.Config "localhost" 5432)
  +: end

registry env = env <+> components

prodRegistry = registry prod
devRegistry  = registry dev
```

In that case the `<+>` operator is use to "append" 2 registries together.
Now we can "make" the application.

### Make the application

In order to "make" the application we use the `TypeApplications` language extension and the `Data.Registry.make` function:
```haskell
app :: App
app = make @App devRegistry
```

`make` will recursively build all the dependencies until it can build the full `App`. In case a constructor or a piece of configuration is missing the compiler will display a message like:
```haskell
No instance for (Contains EventListener.Config '[])
  arising from a use of ‘make’
```

We don't have to build the whole application. Once we have a Registry we can also integrate subsets of the application.

### Integration

For example we can just as easily instantiate and start the `BookingEventListener`:
```haskell
listener = make @BookingEventListener devRegistry

listener & consumeBookings
```
This will create both the listener and the underlying database so that consumed events will be stored. Yet, for integration testing you might prefer to skip storing bookings altogether. In that case you can define a `MockDatabase`:
```haskell
mockDatabase = Database.Module {
  get = pure Nothing
, list = pure []
, insert = pure ()
}
```

And add it "on top" of the `devRegistry`:
```haskell
listener = make @BookingEventListener (fun mockDatabase +: devRegistry)

listener & consumeBookings
```
Now no booking will be stored in the database while you run the listener.
Can wiring and re-wiring your application be simpler than that?

Actually the full story is a bit more complicated :-).
For one thing some components need to carefully allocate resources.

### Resources

For example the constructor for the `Database` returns an `IO Database`. This is problematic for the registry resolution algorithm because the `BookingRepository.new` function requires a `Database.Module` not an `IO Database.Module`. What can we do? The simplest thing is to actually "lift" everything into the same `IO` monad using some variations of the `val` and `fun` combinators:

 - `valTo @m`    lifts a value `a` into `m a`
 - `funTo @m`    lifts a function `a -> b -> c -> ... -> o` into `m a -> m b -> m c -> ... -> m o`
 - `funArgsTo @m` lifts a function `a -> b -> c -> ... -> m o` into `m a -> m b -> m c -> ... -> m o`

(please read the [reference guide](./reference.md) for a list of the "lifting" combinators)

This means that a "real-life" application registry looks like:
```haskell
registry =
     valTo @IO (EventListener.Config [urihttps://kafka/bookings])
  +: valTo @IO (Database.Config "postgres://database" 5432)
  +: funTo @IO Database.new
  +: funTo @IO BookingRepository.new
  +: funTo @IO EventListener.new
  +: funTo @IO BookingEventListener.new
  +: funTo @IO AvailabilitiesEventistener.new
  +: funTo @IO Api.new
  +: funTo @IO Database.new
  +: end
```

In general the monad used won't even be `IO` but a `ResourceT` monad because components allocating resources should better close them down gracefully when they are done. While you can use your own `ResourceT IO` this library provides a `Data.Registry.RIO` monad supporting resource allocation (please have a look at the API).

In terms of resources management we are almost there. We still need to solve one issue.

When we use `Database.new` we get back an `IO Database.Module` which goes on top of the stack. This `IO Database.Module` value can then be used by all the lifted functions in our registry, like `BookingRepository.new`. However since the `BookingRepository.Module` is used by 3 other components everytime we use it we will get a new version of the `Database`! Because the action `IO Database.Module` will be executed 3 times giving us 3 accesses to the database. This is clearly undesirable since a `Database` component maintains a pool of connections to the database. What we need is to make a "singleton" for the database.

### Singletons

The `singleton` function does exactly this:
```haskell
registry =
     singleton @IO @Database.Module $

     valTo @IO (EventListener.Config [urihttps://kafka/bookings])
  +: valTo @IO (Database.Config "postgres://database" 5432)
  +: funTo @IO Database.new
  +: funTo @IO BookingRepository.new
  +: funTo @IO EventListener.new
  +: funTo @IO BookingEventListener.new
  +: funTo @IO AvailabilitiesEventistener.new
  +: funTo @IO Api.new
  +: funTo @IO Database.new
  +: end
```

The `singleton` declaration will slightly "tweak" the registry to say "if you create an `IO Database.Module` cache this action so that the same `Database.Module` is returned everytime an `IO Database.Module` value is needed. Since caching is involved the signature of the `registry` changes from a pure value to a monadic one:
```haskell
registry :: IO Registry inputs outputs
registry = devRegistry & singleton @IO @Database.Module
```
And if you need to make several singletons in your application you will have to use the "bind" monadic operator
```haskell
registry :: IO Registry inputs outputs
registry = devRegistry &
            singleton @IO @Database.Module >>=
            singleton @IO @Metrics.Module
```

In terms of configuration we are almost done. We just need to address one last difficulty.

We have 2 different listeners which are both using an `EventListener.Module`. That component can be configured to listen to a specific queue of events with `EventListener.Config`. But if the 2 listeners eventually share the same configuration they are going to listen to the same event!

### Context dependent configurations

What we need then is to "specialize" the configuration to use depending on what we are building. If we are building a `BookingEventListener.Module` we want the `EventListener.Module` to be created with `configBooking` and if we are building an `AvailabilityEventListener.Module` we want the `EventListener.Module` to be created with `configAvailability`
```haskell
configBooking =
  EventListener.Config [urihttps://kafka-prod/bookings]

configAvailability =
  EventListener.Config [urihttps://kafka-prod/availabilities]
```

Then we need to tell the Registry what we want to happen with the `specialize` function:
```haskell
registry =
  devRegistry &
-- when trying to build IO BookingEventListener.Module, use configBooking whenever
-- an EventListener.Config is required
  specialize @(IO BookingEventListener.Module) configBooking &
  specialize @(IO AvailabilityEventListener.Module) configAvailability
```

If it all looks too confusing please have a look at the [reference guide](./reference.md) to see all the available combinators and their meaning at once.

Our main use-cases for configuring and instantiating the application are now covered, we can add another feature, controlling the start-up

### Start-up

Some applications once started, before being even used can run some actions:

 - do a self health-check: "is the database really connected?"
 - do a dependency health-check: "is the event service available?"
 - load caches

For those use cases you can benefit from the `Data.Registry.RIO` type which not only has a `ResourceT` instance but also defines a list of actions which you can create with the `Data.Registry.Warmup` module. For example you can write:
```haskell
-- in Database.hs

new :: Config -> RIO Database
new config = do
  -- allocate the connection as a resource
  connection <- allocate (createConnection config) pure
  let database = Database {
         get    = getWithConnection connection
       , list   = listWithConnection connection
       , insert = insertWithConnection connection
       }
  warmupWith (warmupOf database (database & tryList))

tryList :: Database -> IO ()
tryList database =
  void $ (database & list) (Command "select * from bookings limit 1")
```

If the action passed to `warmupOf` throws an exception then the whole application start-up will be aborted and the exception reported. This will happen when you use the
`Data.Registry.RIO.withRegistry` function:
```haskell
startApp = withRegistry prodRegistry $\result application ->
  if isSuccess result then
    do _ <- fork $ application & bookings & consumeBookings
       _ <- fork $ application & availabilities & consumeAvailabilities
       pure ()

  else
    print $ "could not start the application" <> show result
```

`withRegistry` gives you the opportunity to act on the result of starting the full application before making the application available.

This is all entirely optional though! You don't have to use `Data.Registry.Warmup` nor the `RIO` type and you can decide by yourself how to deal with resources and startup.
